so I've made a few references over the
past couple years to that time that the
FBI visited the studio and I was asked
not to talk about that for what I feel
like are pretty obvious reasons so for
years I haven't but it turns out I am
now finally able to tell that
story so here we are so for those of you
who don't know we have a studio here and
it's in a larger building with more
tenants in it obviously it's like an
office building it's not it's not
exactly like an office building but you
know there's a front desk and security
and all that and I've been in this
building long enough that we have a
pretty good relationship with them so we
have this one rule basically so there's
the guy at security at the front desk
we'll call him Bob just for this but Bob
and I have this one rule which is that
if anyone ever shows up at the front
desk and asks for me that he doesn't let
them in I have to come out and meet them
to confirm that I was expecting them and
then I bring them back to our studio so
if someone just randomly shows up which
you shouldn't but if they do and I don't
show up at the front to meet them then I
wasn't supposed to meet them but if I
have someone coming and I expect them I
meet them outside that's our one rule we
stick to it so in June 2020 it was
pretty early in this new space that we
have and it's also right around like
Peak covid so I had sent everybody home
and it was just me and Andrew coming
into the studio to work on on basically
building furniture and making videos and
recording the podcast every week so I
got here pretty early on one of those
summer mornings and I'm starting to get
all my stuff settled and then there's a
knock on the door so I open the door and
it's our front desk guy Bob and Bob
basically says Hey Marquez uh there's
some people with badges at the front
desk to see you I of course didn't let
them in but if you would like to they're
up there and then he just walked away
and my first thought is
confusion like what what did I what did
I do on the way here that someone with
badges would show up asking for me I'm
I'm a little concerned I'm not sure what
to think so there was a solid minute
where I just like stood there in the
doorway like okay do I go up there or do
I just stay here in the
studio without asking who the people
with badges are i eh and I just I just
went up to the front I went up I went up
to the front desk and sure enough
there's three people with badges there
and they walk right up to me and they
all like flash their badges FBI just
like the movies like FBI agent this IRS
agent this and uh they're like Marquez
good to see you uh we've got some
questions for you about the Escobar
phone so immediately I'm relieved but
I'm like oh oh oh the Escobar phone oh
oh because see a few months earlier I
had published a video about the Escobar
fold if you guys haven't seen that video
basically the story goes there's this
this company parading around and selling
this $400 gold folding phone which
they're going to use to destroy Apple
and Samsung and they had these insane
marketing campaigns and all this but
really what they were doing as I
uncovered in my video was covering
Samsung Galaxy folds cheaply with like
gold stickers
and then shipping them to YouTubers and
people who they believed would talk
about it positively and then not
shipping any of the other orders from
regular people or the audiences that
watch those videos those people were
getting scammed out of their money and
honestly in hindsight I don't know how
they thought they were going to get away
with this like it felt pretty obvious to
me but you know eventually their whole
plan backfired when I made a video about
the entire thing so now fast forward a
couple months and it actually makes
sense that the FBI and the IR s are
interested I just didn't I didn't
realize they were just going to show up
one day but here we are but you know
shout out to Bob at the front desk for
sticking to our rule even though they he
probably had a bunch of people like
flash FBI badges at him he stuck to our
Rule and that was great so I appreciate
that uh but yeah so I I came out I
brought them back to our spot and they
basically then had a bunch of questions
about that video and the process of
dealing with that company in any way
like any and all Communications that I
had with them any email I'd ever sent or
received from them ever they wanted
everything and actually it was funny
another tidbit is Andrew at the time had
just started running the business email
account here and when they were asking
like has anybody else on your team
possibly ever been in email
communication with this company and I
was like I think Andrew might have and
Andrew just had arrived at the studio
and walked up to the front door of our
spot and so I like I go hey hey come
come in and you know first thing he sees
is like me in an empty studio with a
bunch of people in suits like waving him
over so he has a pretty funny alternate
perspective on the story so the FBI
actually took the half peeled Escobar
fold and the scratched gold iPhone from
my videos as evidence in the case they
literally asked for them and took them
away they put them in sealed plastic
bags that said evidence on them uh which
is why I said at the end of the smart
awards that year also honorable mention
to the Escobar fold 2 which I also don't
have on this desk because it is in the
possession of the FBI someday I'll be
able to tell that story so as they're
leaving you know they've asked me all
the questions as the FBI and IRS people
are leaving they're they're like hey uh
don't talk about this at all publicly
please and I'm like of course yeah no
obviously you're the FB of I'm not going
to talk about it uh I don't want to
interfere with the investigation in any
way but also like when could I talk
about it like how long do you think
before I am allowed to and they said
we'll let you know so I've been biting
my tongue for years not talking about it
hinting at it a little bit but not
anything too serious um but since then a
lot of The Dominoes have started to fall
you know at first when the scam was
happening PayPal stopped working with
them so they'd switched to this only
non-refundable direct transfer thing
with Clara and then they stopped working
with them too and then eventually the
whole operation starts falling down and
the guy at the head of IT named Olaf
gustofson this guy finally ends up
getting arrested and going to prison in
Spain for fraud and money laundering and
a bunch of other things basically for
everything that I talked about in those
videos so I've been holding on to this
not really knowing like okay is it cool
now that he's Behind Bars to talk about
it so we actually reached back out to
those same FBI agents um because they
left their cards and uh they're like oh
yeah no it's cool now to talk about it
you're totally fine so there
unfortunately is no footage of any of
this incident um but there is these
papers which they provided as proof that
they received property to be used as
evidence in the case so one Pablo
Escobar fold 2 mobile flip phone AKA
Samsung and one one Pablo Escobar gold
11 Pro mobile phone AKA iPhone 11 Pro
but hey now you basically know the story
uh yeah pretty serious business out here
making videos about phones sometimes you
know apparently also uh if this guy Olaf
ever does get charged in the United
States then uh it's very likely my
videos would show up somewhere in those
court documents which is crazy and also
the phones that they took May show up as
evidence but yeah I do want to get back
into a little more of the more
investigative Deep dive type of videos
obviously the giant scams don't happen
very often thankfully in the tech world
but still they are fascinating stories
when they do by the way that's not the
only encounter that we've had with the
FBI in running this YouTube channel but
that's a that's another story for
another day but hey if you want more fun
stories like this one let me know with
the comments but also so the latest
episode the bonus episode of the
waveform podcast is just stories like
this one from the past couple years at
the studio Whole Story Time episode it's
fun so go over there and subscribe and
watch that but yeah that's basically it
thanks for watching catch you guys in
the next one
peace it's a story of how I
became uh a villain for at least 24
hours I was I was hated a couple weeks I
would say yeah oh really a couple weeks
well cuz the video had to come out hang
on here for a second I'm going to go get
him I literally wait there with all my
bags and stuff and like this guy
disappears into this booth comes back
out with another guy he goes hi oh good
to meet you and he's filming me now okay
oh no so now he's filming me couple
weeks later I log into YouTube and
everyone Twitter's like why is Marquez
such a jerk